---
layout: post
title: "Nudge"
author: "Rowan Huang"
date: 2025-04-23
category: running
---

Tedium plagues my long run. I’m on the American Tobacco Trail, the remnant of an abandoned capitalist effort by J.B. Duke to establish a railway system. The company of The Picture of Dorian Grey is lackluster: I find myself rolling my eyes at Lord Henry Wotton philosophical soliloquies. Occasionally a plot point with shock me out of my shuffling reverie, but I mostly feel like a burnt out cashier scanning an onslaught of inscrutable barcodes: Beauty ($20.99), Jealousy ($14.55), Youth ($1.89), and Manipulation ($7.01) fill up the check-out screen.

There’s a man standing on the path with a bike, unmoving. I’m wary – people don’t often stop on the ATT. I straighten my gaze into the far distance, but when I pass him the man addresses me.

“Beautiful, isn’t it?”

I slow down. Basil’s lecture to Dorian on righteousness drones lightly in the background.

“What?” I ask, anxious.

“Look.” He points to my left.

When I turn my head, the view is disorienting. For most of the trail, the path cowers under lofty sun-soaking trees bred by southern heat. But this section opens up to a suburban field, and the sky swarms my vision. Zeus has swept his arm across this small North Carolinian town, and his fingers have left behind a rainbow.

I come to a full stop, mouth agape with fish-like awe. The sky god must have trimmed his beard recently — the heavens are heavy with clouds. Yet, the colored arch bears the burden with ease. It must stand somewhere, I muse: who has the honor of touching its shimmering ends? Surely not the leprechauns, those greedy bastards. I imagine it kissing a farm that houses an old man in his midday slumber.

I look back to smile at my benefactor, but my eyes find a little boy instead. His eyes are blue. He shuffles past me to catch up with his father.

As I listen to Dorian Gray’s final deformation, I wonder if I’ve met Jupiter himself.
